README.md, before:

This is a [Next.js](https://nextjs.org) project bootstrapped with [`create-next-app`](https://nextjs.org/docs/app/api-reference/cli/create-next-app).

## Getting Started

First, run the development server:

```bash
npm run dev
# or
yarn dev
# or
pnpm dev
# or
bun dev
```

Open [http://localhost:3000](http://localhost:3000) with your browser to see the result.

You can start editing the page by modifying `app/page.tsx`. The page auto-updates as you edit the file.

This project uses [`next/font`](https://nextjs.org/docs/app/building-your-application/optimizing/fonts) to automatically optimize and load [Geist](https://vercel.com/font), a new font family for Vercel.

## RAG Chatbot with Google Gemini

This project includes a Retrieval Augmented Generation (RAG) chatbot powered by Google's Gemini model. The chatbot can answer questions about the portfolio content by retrieving relevant information from blog posts, projects, and other content.

### Setup

1. Create a `.env.local` file based on `.env.local.example` with your Google Cloud credentials:
   ```
   VERTEX_AI_API_URL=https://us-central1-aiplatform.googleapis.com/v1/projects/YOUR_PROJECT_ID/locations/us-central1/publishers/google/models/gemini-pro:generateContent
   VERTEX_AI_EMBEDDING_API_URL=https://us-central1-aiplatform.googleapis.com/v1/projects/YOUR_PROJECT_ID/locations/us-central1/publishers/google/models/textembedding-gecko:predict
   GOOGLE_APPLICATION_CREDENTIALS=path/to/your/service-account-key.json
   ```

2. Place your Google Cloud service account key file in the project root.

3. Ensure the RAG documents are generated by running the content extraction scripts:
   ```bash
   npm run extract-blog-content
   npm run extract-project-content
   ```

### Usage

1. Navigate to `/chat/rag-chat` to use the RAG-powered chatbot.
2. Ask questions about projects, blog posts, or skills mentioned in the portfolio.
3. The chatbot will retrieve relevant content and provide accurate answers based on the portfolio content.

### Development Mode

The chatbot includes a mock implementation for development purposes:

- When running in development mode (`NODE_ENV=development`), the chatbot will automatically use a mock implementation of the Gemini API
- This allows development and testing without consuming Vertex AI API credits
- You can also force the mock implementation by setting `USE_MOCK_GEMINI=true` in your environment
- The mock implementation will show a notice in the UI indicating that responses are simulated

### Features

- **Content-Grounded Responses**: All responses are based on actual portfolio content
- **Source Attribution**: View the sources used to generate each answer
- **Similarity Scores**: See how relevant each source is to your query
- **Conversation History**: The chatbot maintains context across multiple messages
- **Fallback Mode**: Automatically falls back to mock implementation if the Gemini API is unavailable

## Learn More

To learn more about Next.js, take a look at the following resources:

- [Next.js Documentation](https://nextjs.org/docs) - learn about Next.js features and API.
- [Learn Next.js](https://nextjs.org/learn) - an interactive Next.js tutorial.

You can check out [the Next.js GitHub repository](https://github.com/vercel/next.js) - your feedback and contributions are welcome!

## Deploy on Vercel

The easiest way to deploy your Next.js app is to use the [Vercel Platform](https://vercel.com/new?utm_medium=default-template&filter=next.js&utm_source=create-next-app&utm_campaign=create-next-app-readme) from the creators of Next.js.

Check out our [Next.js deployment documentation](https://nextjs.org/docs/app/building-your-application/deploying) for more details.

Commit message:

Add comprehensive CI workflow and update documentation, utilities, and tests

README.md, after:

This is a [Next.js](https://nextjs.org) project bootstrapped with [`create-next-app`](https://nextjs.org/docs/app/api-reference/cli/create-next-app).

## Getting Started

First, run the development server:

```bash
npm run dev
# or
yarn dev
# or
pnpm dev
# or
bun dev
```

Open [http://localhost:3000](http://localhost:3000) with your browser to see the result.

You can start editing the page by modifying `app/page.tsx`. The page auto-updates as you edit the file.

This project uses [`next/font`](https://nextjs.org/docs/app/building-your-application/optimizing/fonts) to automatically optimize and load [Geist](https://vercel.com/font), a new font family for Vercel.

## RAG Chatbot with Google Gemini

This project includes a Retrieval Augmented Generation (RAG) chatbot powered by Google's Gemini model. The chatbot can answer questions about the portfolio content by retrieving relevant information from blog posts, projects, and other content.

### Setup

1. Create a `.env.local` file based on `.env.local.example` with your Google Cloud credentials:
   ```
   VERTEX_AI_API_URL=https://us-central1-aiplatform.googleapis.com/v1/projects/YOUR_PROJECT_ID/locations/us-central1/publishers/google/models/gemini-pro:generateContent
   VERTEX_AI_EMBEDDING_API_URL=https://us-central1-aiplatform.googleapis.com/v1/projects/YOUR_PROJECT_ID/locations/us-central1/publishers/google/models/textembedding-gecko:predict
   GOOGLE_APPLICATION_CREDENTIALS=path/to/your/service-account-key.json
   ```

2. Place your Google Cloud service account key file in the project root.

3. Ensure the RAG documents are generated by running the content extraction scripts:
   ```bash
   npm run extract-blog-content
   npm run extract-project-content
   ```

### Usage

1. Navigate to `/chat/rag-chat` to use the RAG-powered chatbot.
2. Ask questions about projects, blog posts, or skills mentioned in the portfolio.
3. The chatbot will retrieve relevant content and provide accurate answers based on the portfolio content.

### Development Mode

The chatbot includes a mock implementation for development purposes:

- When running in development mode (`NODE_ENV=development`), the chatbot will automatically use a mock implementation of the Gemini API
- This allows development and testing without consuming Vertex AI API credits
- You can also force the mock implementation by setting `USE_MOCK_GEMINI=true` in your environment
- The mock implementation will show a notice in the UI indicating that responses are simulated

### Features

- **Content-Grounded Responses**: All responses are based on actual portfolio content
- **Source Attribution**: View the sources used to generate each answer
- **Similarity Scores**: See how relevant each source is to your query
- **Conversation History**: The chatbot maintains context across multiple messages
- **Fallback Mode**: Automatically falls back to mock implementation if the Gemini API is unavailable

## Requirements Automation & Utilities

This project includes an automated requirements gathering script and supporting utilities:

- **scripts/auto-requirements.js**: Automates project review, business problem statement generation, requirements agent calls, and documentation updates. It leverages a robust internal utility module for all file system, JSON, glob, and error handling operations.
- **scripts/utils.js**: Internal utility module providing safe and consistent functions for file I/O, JSON parsing/stringifying, glob pattern matching, string manipulation, and standardized error logging. Used by auto-requirements.js and intended for internal use by scripts in this project.

All utility functions are thoroughly unit tested. See `TEST_SUMMARY.md` for details.

## Learn More

To learn more about Next.js, take a look at the following resources:

- [Next.js Documentation](https://nextjs.org/docs) - learn about Next.js features and API.
- [Learn Next.js](https://nextjs.org/learn) - an interactive Next.js tutorial.

You can check out [the Next.js GitHub repository](https://github.com/vercel/next.js) - your feedback and contributions are welcome!

## Deploy on Vercel

The easiest way to deploy your Next.js app is to use the [Vercel Platform](https://vercel.com/new?utm_medium=default-template&filter=next.js&utm_source=create-next-app&utm_campaign=create-next-app-readme) from the creators of Next.js.

Check out our [Next.js deployment documentation](https://nextjs.org/docs/app/building-your-application/deploying) for more details.
